modules/ROOT/pages/user.adoc, before:

= Using Fedora Accounts

[#newaccounts]
== How do I create a new account?

To create a new account, go to the home page (either for https://admin.fedoraproject.org/accounts[Fedora Accounts] or https://admin.fedoraproject.org/accounts[CentOS accounts]) 
choose the register tab, and fill out your basic details:

image:screenshots/newaccount1.png[image]

An email will be sent to your provided email address that includes a
validation link, follow this link back to validate your email,
then set your password:

image:screenshots/newaccount2.png[image]

After setting your password you will be logged into your new account
automatically:

image:screenshots/newaccount3.png[image]

[#twofactor]
== How do I add and use two-factor authentication?

Fedora Accounts / CentOS Accounts features the ability to configure and user two-factor
authentication through the user of OTP tokens. by default, the system
generates Time-based One-time Password (TOTP) tokens, which can be used
with authentication apps such as https://freeotp.github.io/[FreeOTP].

To create an OTP token, go to the OTP tab in the user settings, and click the *Add OTP Token* button:

image:screenshots/otp1.png[image]

Next, add a name for the token and provide your password again.
Something descriptive like the name of the app you are adding the token
to might prove useful it you decide to add more tokens later:

image:screenshots/otp2.png[image]

Your token is now created. Using your chosen authenticator application,
scan the QR code and add it to your app.

image:screenshots/otp3.png[image]

Next time you log in, you will need to enter in your password
followed by the 6 digit OTP code generated by your chosen authenticator
app.


[#pkinit]
== How do I get a kerberos ticket if I have two-factor authentication enabled?
When two-factor authentication is enabled on an account (i.e. at least one OTP token
is defined in your account), additional configuration is required to get a kerberos ticket
with kinit. Running kinit without this configuration will result in the following error:

 kinit: Pre-authentication failed: Invalid argument while getting initial credentials

To configure your system to get a kerberos ticket for an account with two-factor
authentication enabled:

=== 1. Install `fedora-packager`

Install the `fedora-packager` package from the Fedora repositories:

 sudo dnf install fedora-packager

`fedora-packager` provides a range of tools for fedora packagers and contributors. It also provides
krb5 configurations (in `/etc/krb5.conf.d/`) for connecting to the FEDORAPROJECT.ORG realm.

=== 2. initialize the Credentials Cache

Run the following command to initialize the credentials cache. Note that this
command creates the `armor.ccache` file that you will need to point to whenever you
request a new kerberos ticket

 kinit -n @FEDORAPROJECT.ORG -c FILE:armor.ccache


=== 3. Request the kerberos ticket

[NOTE]
====
This step is what you will need to complete from now on whenever you request a Kerberos
ticket
====

Finally, request the kerberos ticket with the following command:

 kinit -T FILE:armor.ccache <username>@FEDORAPROJECT.ORG

You will be presented with the following prompt, be sure to 
*Enter your password first, followed by the OTP Token Value*:

 Enter OTP Token Value:

[IMPORTANT]
====
Even though the prompt states to enter the OTP token value, authentication will fail
unless you enter your password, followed by the OTP token value
====


[#join-group]
== How do I become a member of a group?

Group Sponsors have the ability to add new members to the group. A group
should provide the information required to request access to the group,
otherwise contact a group sponsor directly.

Previously, In FAS2, a user could request access to a group, which a
group admininstrator could either approve or deny. Now, users are
simply added to the group by a sponsor after requesting access
through other channels for that group, such as email or IRC.

[#leave-group]
== How do I stop being a member of a group?

As a group member, you can choose to leave a group at anytime. Press the
leave group button on the group detail page:

image:screenshots/leave-group.png[image]

If you are the sponsor of a group, you can simply remove yourself from
the group, as you would remove any other user.

[#sponsorwhat]
== What is a group sponsor?

Groups have users with a special _sponsor_ privilege. If a
user is a sponsor of a group, they are able to add and remove group
members. The sponsors of a group are listed above the group members.

image:screenshots/groupscreen-sponsorview.png[image]

Previously in FAS2, groups had special _admininstrator_ users that had
the ability to add both new members and new admininstrators to a group.
Now, groups have _Sponsors_ which have the ability to add new
members to a group.

[#becomingasponsor]
== How do I become a sponsor of a group?

Becoming a sponsor of a group is a special process that is completed by the 
Fedora Infra team. To apply for sponsor status of a group, file a ticket in
the fedora infrastructure ticket tracker: 
https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/new_issue


[#stopbeingasponsor]
== How do I stop being a sponsor of a group?

Stopping being a sponsor of a group is a special process that is completed by the 
Fedora Infra team. To remove your sponsor status of a group, file a ticket in
the fedora infrastructure ticket tracker: 
https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/new_issue

[#addingmembers]
== As a group sponsor, how do I add members to the group?

Add new members to a group in the group detail page. If you are the
sponsor of a group, a search bar is visible at the top of the user
listing on the group detail page:

image:screenshots/adduser1.png[image]

Simply search for the user that you want to add, and press enter to add
them to the group:

image:screenshots/adduser2.png[image]

[#removingmembers]
== As a group sponsor, how do I remove members from a group?

Remove members from a group in the group detail page. If you are the
sponsor of a group, each of the users in the user listing have a trash
icon button. Simply click this to remove this user from the group.

image:screenshots/deleteuser.png[image]

Commit message:

Update the pkinit related docs
This adds a couple of notes to the kerb+otp docs, ensuring users
upgrade fedora-packager.

Resolves: https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/issue/9788

Signed-off-by: Ryan Lerch <rlerch@redhat.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/user.adoc, after:

= Using Fedora Accounts

[#newaccounts]
== How do I create a new account?

To create a new account, go to the home page (either for https://admin.fedoraproject.org/accounts[Fedora Accounts] or https://admin.fedoraproject.org/accounts[CentOS accounts]) 
choose the register tab, and fill out your basic details:

image:screenshots/newaccount1.png[image]

An email will be sent to your provided email address that includes a
validation link, follow this link back to validate your email,
then set your password:

image:screenshots/newaccount2.png[image]

After setting your password you will be logged into your new account
automatically:

image:screenshots/newaccount3.png[image]

[#twofactor]
== How do I add and use two-factor authentication?

Fedora Accounts / CentOS Accounts features the ability to configure and user two-factor
authentication through the user of OTP tokens. by default, the system
generates Time-based One-time Password (TOTP) tokens, which can be used
with authentication apps such as https://freeotp.github.io/[FreeOTP].

To create an OTP token, go to the OTP tab in the user settings, and click the *Add OTP Token* button:

image:screenshots/otp1.png[image]

Next, add a name for the token and provide your password again.
Something descriptive like the name of the app you are adding the token
to might prove useful it you decide to add more tokens later:

image:screenshots/otp2.png[image]

Your token is now created. Using your chosen authenticator application,
scan the QR code and add it to your app.

image:screenshots/otp3.png[image]

Next time you log in, you will need to enter in your password
followed by the 6 digit OTP code generated by your chosen authenticator
app.


[#pkinit]
== How do I get a kerberos ticket if I have two-factor authentication enabled?
When two-factor authentication is enabled on an account (i.e. at least one OTP token
is defined in your account), additional configuration is required to get a kerberos ticket
with kinit. Running kinit without this configuration will result in the following error:

 kinit: Pre-authentication failed: Invalid argument while getting initial credentials

To configure your system to get a kerberos ticket for an account with two-factor
authentication enabled:

=== 1. Install / Update `fedora-packager`

Install / Update the `fedora-packager` package from the Fedora repositories:

 sudo dnf install fedora-packager

[NOTE]
====
If you have previously installed `fedora-packager`, ensure you update it to the most recent version.
The newest version contains updates to ensure this procedure works with Fedora Accounts, and adds
`krb5-pkinit` as a new dependency of `fedora-packager`
====

`fedora-packager` provides a range of tools for fedora packagers and contributors. It also provides
krb5 configurations (in `/etc/krb5.conf.d/`) for connecting to the FEDORAPROJECT.ORG realm.

=== 2. initialize the Credentials Cache

Run the following command to initialize the credentials cache. Note that this
command creates the `armor.ccache` file that you will need to point to whenever you
request a new kerberos ticket

 kinit -n @FEDORAPROJECT.ORG -c FILE:armor.ccache

Note that this command should not prompt you for a password. If this command returns
`Password for WELLKNOWN/ANONYMOUS@FEDORAPROJECT.ORG:` please double-check that 
`fedora-packager` is updated to the most recent version.

=== 3. Request the kerberos ticket

[NOTE]
====
This step is what you will need to complete from now on whenever you request a Kerberos
ticket
====

Finally, request the kerberos ticket with the following command:

 kinit -T FILE:armor.ccache <username>@FEDORAPROJECT.ORG

You will be presented with the following prompt, be sure to 
*Enter your password first, followed by the OTP Token Value*:

 Enter OTP Token Value:

[IMPORTANT]
====
Even though the prompt states to enter the OTP token value, authentication will fail
unless you enter your password, followed by the OTP token value
====


[#join-group]
== How do I become a member of a group?

Group Sponsors have the ability to add new members to the group. A group
should provide the information required to request access to the group,
otherwise contact a group sponsor directly.

Previously, In FAS2, a user could request access to a group, which a
group admininstrator could either approve or deny. Now, users are
simply added to the group by a sponsor after requesting access
through other channels for that group, such as email or IRC.

[#leave-group]
== How do I stop being a member of a group?

As a group member, you can choose to leave a group at anytime. Press the
leave group button on the group detail page:

image:screenshots/leave-group.png[image]

If you are the sponsor of a group, you can simply remove yourself from
the group, as you would remove any other user.

[#sponsorwhat]
== What is a group sponsor?

Groups have users with a special _sponsor_ privilege. If a
user is a sponsor of a group, they are able to add and remove group
members. The sponsors of a group are listed above the group members.

image:screenshots/groupscreen-sponsorview.png[image]

Previously in FAS2, groups had special _admininstrator_ users that had
the ability to add both new members and new admininstrators to a group.
Now, groups have _Sponsors_ which have the ability to add new
members to a group.

[#becomingasponsor]
== How do I become a sponsor of a group?

Becoming a sponsor of a group is a special process that is completed by the 
Fedora Infra team. To apply for sponsor status of a group, file a ticket in
the fedora infrastructure ticket tracker: 
https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/new_issue


[#stopbeingasponsor]
== How do I stop being a sponsor of a group?

Stopping being a sponsor of a group is a special process that is completed by the 
Fedora Infra team. To remove your sponsor status of a group, file a ticket in
the fedora infrastructure ticket tracker: 
https://pagure.io/fedora-infrastructure/new_issue

[#addingmembers]
== As a group sponsor, how do I add members to the group?

Add new members to a group in the group detail page. If you are the
sponsor of a group, a search bar is visible at the top of the user
listing on the group detail page:

image:screenshots/adduser1.png[image]

Simply search for the user that you want to add, and press enter to add
them to the group:

image:screenshots/adduser2.png[image]

[#removingmembers]
== As a group sponsor, how do I remove members from a group?

Remove members from a group in the group detail page. If you are the
sponsor of a group, each of the users in the user listing have a trash
icon button. Simply click this to remove this user from the group.

image:screenshots/deleteuser.png[image]
